README.md, before:

# Wan2.2 + ComfyUI on RunPod Serverless (Models in Persistent Storage)

This image installs both:
- Wan2.2 video generator (supports i2v and s2v via CLI)
- ComfyUI (for image pipelines like FLUX.1-dev)

It uses your pre-downloaded models from persistent storage. Mount your RunPod volume so the container sees the weights and avoids network downloads.

## Build & Deploy
```bash
docker build -t <YOUR_REGISTRY>/wan22-runpod-serverless:latest .
docker push <YOUR_REGISTRY>/wan22-runpod-serverless:latest
```
Create a RunPod Serverless template using the image. Set env:
- `WAN_CKPT_DIR`: `/workspace/models` (default)
- `RUNPOD_MAX_CONCURRENCY`: `1`
- `COMFYUI_ROOT`: `/workspace/ComfyUI`
- `COMFYUI_MODELS_DIR`: `/workspace/ComfyUI/models`

**Mount your RunPod permanent storage volume (ID: p63c2g0961) to `/runpod-volume`**

Your models are stored in: `/runpod-volume/models/` with the following structure:
- **WAN Image-to-Video models** (i2v-A14B)
- **WAN Speech-to-Video models** (s2v-*)
- **FLUX.1-dev models** (for ComfyUI)

Mount your RunPod permanent storage and ensure your models are placed in one of these locations:

- Wan2.2 weights:
  - Preferred: `/workspace/models` (or set `WAN_CKPT_DIR`)
  - Fallbacks auto-detected: `/runpod-volume` or `/runpod-volume/models`

- ComfyUI models (for FLUX, etc.): any one of
  - `/runpod-volume/comfyui-models`
  - `/runpod-volume/ComfyUI/models`
  - `/workspace/ComfyUI/models` (if directly mounted)

At startup, the bootstrap script links `COMFYUI_MODELS_DIR` to the first matching persistent path.

## GPU/CUDA Compatibility
- Base image: CUDA 12.8.0 + cuDNN (Ubuntu 22.04)
- PyTorch stack: cu128 wheels (latest available for torch/vision/audio)
- Target GPUs: RTX 5090 (default in runpod.yaml), RTX 4090, A100.
- If you see device/driver mismatches, ensure host drivers support CUDA 12.8. If necessary, rebuild after upgrading drivers.

## API (Serverless Handler)
### Request
```json
{
  "action": "request",
  "params": {
    "task": "i2v-A14B",
    "reference_image_url": "https://.../img.png",
    "prompt": "cinematic winter summit, steady pan, subtle parallax",
    "size": "1280*720",
    "seed": 42,
    "offload_model": true,
    "t5_cpu": true
  },
  "return_video": true
}
```

### Status
```json
{ "action": "status", "request_id": "UUID", "return_video": true }
```

Outputs save to `/workspace/outputs/<request_id>.mp4` (and can be returned as base64 when `return_video=true`).

### Tasks
- `i2v-A14B` (default): image-to-video (requires `reference_image_*`)
- `s2v-*`: source/animate-to-video (no image required; provide source path and related args as supported by Wan2.2)

## Parameters
These inputs are forwarded to Wan2.2’s `generate.py` (aligned to the upstream CLI). Defaults shown are from the wrapper or upstream where noted; ranges are recommended, not strict.

- reference_image_url | reference_image_base64 | reference_image_path
  - For i2v tasks: Required. One of URL, base64, or absolute path.
- size
  - Default (upstream): `1280*720` (`WIDTH*HEIGHT`).
- prompt
  - Default (upstream): `None`.
- seed (alias for `base_seed`)
  - Default (upstream): `-1` → random.
- frame_num (alias: `num_frames`)
  - Must satisfy `4n+1` (e.g., 33, 49, 81).
- sample_solver | sample_steps | sample_guide_scale | sample_shift
  - Typical ranges: steps ~20–36, guidance 3.0–9.0.
- offload_model | t5_cpu | convert_model_dtype
  - On serverless, keep enabled to reduce VRAM.
- save_file
  - Automatically set to `/workspace/outputs/<request_id>.mp4` unless overridden.
- extra_args
  - Advanced passthrough to the WAN CLI; accepts string or array (first 50 tokens used).

Notes
- Only supported flags are forwarded. See `src/handler.py` for aliased mappings.
- If `WAN_CKPT_DIR` (`/workspace/models` by default) is missing but `/runpod-volume` exists, the handler falls back to `/runpod-volume`.

## ComfyUI usage (FLUX.1-dev image models)
- The container installs ComfyUI in `COMFYUI_ROOT`.
- Place image model weights in your persistent storage under one of the ComfyUI model paths above (e.g. `checkpoints`, `diffusers`).
- This repo does not expose a ComfyUI HTTP API worker by default; it prepares the environment so other workers or flows can use ComfyUI with pre-mounted weights.

Commit message:

Add auto-download for WAN models using HF_TOKEN
- Bootstrap script now checks for WAN I2V model and downloads if missing
- Uses HF_TOKEN environment variable for authentication
- Updated requirements.txt to include huggingface-hub[cli]
- Added .env.example with HF_TOKEN documentation
- Updated README with model setup instructions

README.md, after:

# Wan2.2 + ComfyUI on RunPod Serverless (Models in Persistent Storage)

This image installs both:
- Wan2.2 video generator (supports i2v and s2v via CLI)
- ComfyUI (for image pipelines like FLUX.1-dev)

It uses your pre-downloaded models from persistent storage. Mount your RunPod volume so the container sees the weights and avoids network downloads.

## Model Setup

### Option 1: Auto-Download on First Run (Recommended)
The bootstrap script will automatically download the WAN 2.2 I2V-A14B model from Hugging Face if not found.

**Set the `HF_TOKEN` environment variable in your RunPod template:**
```
HF_TOKEN=hf_your_huggingface_token_here
```

Get your token from: https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens

The model will be downloaded to `${WAN_CKPT_DIR}/Wan2.2-I2V-A14B` on the first worker startup.

### Option 2: Pre-Download Models
If you prefer to pre-download models to your persistent storage:

```bash
pip install "huggingface_hub[cli]"
huggingface-cli download Wan-AI/Wan2.2-I2V-A14B --local-dir /runpod-volume/models/Wan2.2-I2V-A14B --local-dir-use-symlinks False
```

Ensure the model directory contains `models_t5_umt5-xxl-enc-bf16.pth` and other checkpoint files.

## Build & Deploy
```bash
docker build -t <YOUR_REGISTRY>/wan22-runpod-serverless:latest .
docker push <YOUR_REGISTRY>/wan22-runpod-serverless:latest
```
Create a RunPod Serverless template using the image. Set env:
- `WAN_CKPT_DIR`: `/workspace/models` (default)
- `RUNPOD_MAX_CONCURRENCY`: `1`
- `COMFYUI_ROOT`: `/workspace/ComfyUI`
- `COMFYUI_MODELS_DIR`: `/workspace/ComfyUI/models`

**Mount your RunPod permanent storage volume (ID: p63c2g0961) to `/runpod-volume`**

Your models are stored in: `/runpod-volume/models/` with the following structure:
- **WAN Image-to-Video models** (i2v-A14B)
- **WAN Speech-to-Video models** (s2v-*)
- **FLUX.1-dev models** (for ComfyUI)

Mount your RunPod permanent storage and ensure your models are placed in one of these locations:

- Wan2.2 weights:
  - Preferred: `/workspace/models` (or set `WAN_CKPT_DIR`)
  - Fallbacks auto-detected: `/runpod-volume` or `/runpod-volume/models`

- ComfyUI models (for FLUX, etc.): any one of
  - `/runpod-volume/comfyui-models`
  - `/runpod-volume/ComfyUI/models`
  - `/workspace/ComfyUI/models` (if directly mounted)

At startup, the bootstrap script links `COMFYUI_MODELS_DIR` to the first matching persistent path.

## GPU/CUDA Compatibility
- Base image: CUDA 12.8.0 + cuDNN (Ubuntu 22.04)
- PyTorch stack: cu128 wheels (latest available for torch/vision/audio)
- Target GPUs: RTX 5090 (default in runpod.yaml), RTX 4090, A100.
- If you see device/driver mismatches, ensure host drivers support CUDA 12.8. If necessary, rebuild after upgrading drivers.

## API (Serverless Handler)
### Request
```json
{
  "action": "request",
  "params": {
    "task": "i2v-A14B",
    "reference_image_url": "https://.../img.png",
    "prompt": "cinematic winter summit, steady pan, subtle parallax",
    "size": "1280*720",
    "seed": 42,
    "offload_model": true,
    "t5_cpu": true
  },
  "return_video": true
}
```

### Status
```json
{ "action": "status", "request_id": "UUID", "return_video": true }
```

Outputs save to `/workspace/outputs/<request_id>.mp4` (and can be returned as base64 when `return_video=true`).

### Tasks
- `i2v-A14B` (default): image-to-video (requires `reference_image_*`)
- `s2v-*`: source/animate-to-video (no image required; provide source path and related args as supported by Wan2.2)

## Parameters
These inputs are forwarded to Wan2.2’s `generate.py` (aligned to the upstream CLI). Defaults shown are from the wrapper or upstream where noted; ranges are recommended, not strict.

- reference_image_url | reference_image_base64 | reference_image_path
  - For i2v tasks: Required. One of URL, base64, or absolute path.
- size
  - Default (upstream): `1280*720` (`WIDTH*HEIGHT`).
- prompt
  - Default (upstream): `None`.
- seed (alias for `base_seed`)
  - Default (upstream): `-1` → random.
- frame_num (alias: `num_frames`)
  - Must satisfy `4n+1` (e.g., 33, 49, 81).
- sample_solver | sample_steps | sample_guide_scale | sample_shift
  - Typical ranges: steps ~20–36, guidance 3.0–9.0.
- offload_model | t5_cpu | convert_model_dtype
  - On serverless, keep enabled to reduce VRAM.
- save_file
  - Automatically set to `/workspace/outputs/<request_id>.mp4` unless overridden.
- extra_args
  - Advanced passthrough to the WAN CLI; accepts string or array (first 50 tokens used).

Notes
- Only supported flags are forwarded. See `src/handler.py` for aliased mappings.
- If `WAN_CKPT_DIR` (`/workspace/models` by default) is missing but `/runpod-volume` exists, the handler falls back to `/runpod-volume`.

## ComfyUI usage (FLUX.1-dev image models)
- The container installs ComfyUI in `COMFYUI_ROOT`.
- Place image model weights in your persistent storage under one of the ComfyUI model paths above (e.g. `checkpoints`, `diffusers`).
- This repo does not expose a ComfyUI HTTP API worker by default; it prepares the environment so other workers or flows can use ComfyUI with pre-mounted weights.
